README.md, before:

# JLed - Extended LED Library

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/jandelgado/jled.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/jandelgado/jled)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/jandelgado/jled/badge.svg?branch=master&dummy=1)](https://coveralls.io/github/jandelgado/jled?branch=master)

An Arduino library to control LEDs. It uses a **non-blocking** approach and can
control LEDs in simple (**on**/**off**) and complex (**blinking**,
**breathing**) ways in a **time-driven** manner.

![breathing, blinking, fadeon and -off at the same time](doc/jled.gif)

```c++
// blink and breathe two LEDs (builtin and gpio 9) for 12 seconds.
#include <jled.h>

JLed led_breathe = JLed(9).Breathe(1500).Repeat(6).DelayAfter(500);
JLed led_blink = JLed(LED_BUILTIN).Blink(500, 500).Repeat(11).DelayBefore(1000);

void setup() { }

void loop() {
  led_blink.Update();
  led_breathe.Update();
}
```

## Contents

<!-- vim-markdown-toc GFM -->

* [Features](#features)
* [Usage](#usage)
    * [Static on](#static-on)
        * [Static on example](#static-on-example)
    * [Static off](#static-off)
    * [Blinking](#blinking)
        * [Blinking example](#blinking-example)
    * [Breathing](#breathing)
        * [Breathing example](#breathing-example)
    * [FadeOn](#fadeon)
        * [FadeOn example](#fadeon-example)
    * [FadeOff](#fadeoff)
    * [User provided brightness function](#user-provided-brightness-function)
        * [User provided brightness function example](#user-provided-brightness-function-example)
    * [Immediate Stop](#immediate-stop)
* [Parameter overview](#parameter-overview)
* [Example sketches](#example-sketches)
    * [PlatformIO](#platformio)
    * [Arduino IDE](#arduino-ide)
* [Unit tests](#unit-tests)
* [Author](#author)
* [License](#license)

<!-- vim-markdown-toc -->

## Features

* non-blocking
* simple on/off
* breathe effect
* blinking effect
* fade-on and -off effect
* user provided effects
* supports reversed polarity of LED
* easy configuration using fluent interface

## Usage

First the LED object is constructed and configured, then the state is updated
with subsequent calls to the `Update()` method, typically from the `loop()`
function. The constructor takes the pin, to which the LED is connected to as
only parameter. Further configuration of the LED object is done using a fluent
interface, e.g. `JLed led = JLed(13).Breathe(2000).DelayAfter(1000).Repeat(5)`.
See examples and [Parameter overview](#parameter-oveview) section below for
further details.

### Static on

Calling `On()` turns the LED on on after an optional time, specified by
`DelayBefore()`, has elapsed. To immediately turn a LED on, make a call
like `JLed(LED_BUILTIN).On().Update()`.

#### Static on example

```c++
#include <jled.h>

// turn builtin LED on after 1 second.
JLed led = JLed(LED_BUILTIN).On().DelayBefore(1000);

void setup() { }

void loop() {
  led.Update();
}
```

### Static off

`Off()` works like `On()`, except that it turns the LED off.

### Blinking

In blinking mode, the LED cycles through a given number of on-off cycles.

#### Blinking example

```c++
#include <jled.h>

// blink internal LED every second.
JLed led = JLed(LED_BUILTIN).Blink(1000, 1000).Forever();

void setup() { }

void loop() {
  led.Update();
}
```

### Breathing

In breathing mode, the LED smoothly changes brightness using PWM.

#### Breathing example

```c++
#include <jled.h>

// connect LED to pin 13 (PWM capable). LED will breathe with period of
// 2000ms and a delay of 1000ms after each period.
JLed led = JLed(13).Breathe(2000).DelayAfter(1000).Forever();

void setup() { }

void loop() {
  led.Update();
}
```

### FadeOn

In FadeOn mode, the LED is smoothly faded on to 100% brightness using PWM.

#### FadeOn example

```c++
#include <jled.h>

// LED is connected to pin 9 (PWM capable) gpio
JLed led = JLed(9).FadeOn(1000).DelayBefore(2000);

void setup() { }

void loop() {
  led.Update();
}
```

### FadeOff

In FadeOff mode, the LED is smoothly faded off using PWM. The fade starts
at 100% brightness.

### User provided brightness function

It is also possible to provide a user defined brightness function. The
signature of such a function is `unit8_t func(unit32_t t, uint16_t period, uintptr_t param)`.
The function must return the brightness in range 0..255 in dependence of the
current time t.

#### User provided brightness function example

The example uses a user provided function to calculate the brightness.

```c++
#include <jled.h>

// this function returns changes between 0 and 255 and vice versa every 250 ms.
uint8_t blinkFunc(uint32_t t, uint16_t /*period*/, uintptr_t /*param*/) {
  return 255*((t/250)%2);
}

// Run blinkUserFunc for 5000ms
JLed led = JLed(LED_BUILTIN).UserFunc(blinkFunc, 5000);

void setup() {
}

void loop() {
  led.Update();
}
```

### Immediate Stop

Call `Stop()` to immediately turn the LED off and stop any running effects.

## Parameter overview

The following table shows the applicability of the various parameters in
dependence of the chosen effect:

| Method         | Description                                      | Default | On  | Off | Blink | Breath | FadeOn | FadeOff | UserFunc |
|----------------|--------------------------------------------------|---------|:---:|:---:|:-----:|:------:|:------:|:-------:|:--------:|
| DelayBefore(t) | time to wait before state is initially changed   | 0       | Yes | Yes | Yes   | Yes    | Yes    | Yes     | Yes      |
| DelayAfter(t)  | time to wait after each period                   | 0       |     |     |       | Yes    | Yes    | Yes     | Yes      |
| Repeat(n)      | repeat effect for given number of periods        | 1       |     |     | Yes   | Yes    | Yes    | Yes     | Yes      |
| Forever()      | repeat infinitely                                | false   |     |     | Yes   | Yes    | Yes    | Yes     | Yes      |
| LowActive()    | set output to be low-active (i.e. invert output) | false   | Yes | Yes | Yes   | Yes    | Yes    | Yes     | Yes      |

* all times are specified in milliseconds
* time specified by `DelayBefore()` is relative to first invocation of 
  `Update()`

## Example sketches

Examples sketches are provided in the [examples](examples/) directory. 

### PlatformIO

To build an example using [the PlatformIO ide](http://platformio.org/), simply
uncomment the example to be built in the [platformio.ini](platformio.ini)
project file, e.g.:

```ini
...
[platformio]
; uncomment example to build
src_dir = examples/hello
;src_dir = examples/breathe
...
```

### Arduino IDE

To build an example sketch in the Arduino IDE, simply select an example from
the `File` > `Examples` > `JLed` menu.

## Unit tests

Info on how to run the host based provided unit tests 
[is provided here](test/README.md).

## Author

Jan Delgado, jdelgado[at]gmx.net.

## License

[MIT](LICENSE)

Commit message:

* No longer using floating point operation.   Functions breathe, fade-on, fade-off are now implemented using   linear approximations. * Changed method how fade-off is calculated * Made flickering workaround optional (see jled.cpp)

README.md, after:

# JLed - Extended LED Library

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/jandelgado/jled.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/jandelgado/jled)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/jandelgado/jled/badge.svg?branch=master&dummy=1)](https://coveralls.io/github/jandelgado/jled?branch=master)

An Arduino library to control LEDs. It uses a **non-blocking** approach and can
control LEDs in simple (**on**/**off**) and complex (**blinking**,
**breathing**) ways in a **time-driven** manner.

![breathing, blinking, fadeon and -off at the same time](doc/jled.gif)

```c++
// blink and breathe two LEDs (builtin and gpio 9) for 12 seconds.
#include <jled.h>

JLed led_breathe = JLed(9).Breathe(1500).Repeat(6).DelayAfter(500);
JLed led_blink = JLed(LED_BUILTIN).Blink(500, 500).Repeat(11).DelayBefore(1000);

void setup() { }

void loop() {
  led_blink.Update();
  led_breathe.Update();
}
```

## Contents

<!-- vim-markdown-toc GFM -->

* [Features](#features)
* [Usage](#usage)
    * [Static on](#static-on)
        * [Static on example](#static-on-example)
    * [Static off](#static-off)
    * [Blinking](#blinking)
        * [Blinking example](#blinking-example)
    * [Breathing](#breathing)
        * [Breathing example](#breathing-example)
    * [FadeOn](#fadeon)
        * [FadeOn example](#fadeon-example)
    * [FadeOff](#fadeoff)
    * [User provided brightness function](#user-provided-brightness-function)
        * [User provided brightness function example](#user-provided-brightness-function-example)
    * [Immediate Stop](#immediate-stop)
* [Parameter overview](#parameter-overview)
* [Example sketches](#example-sketches)
    * [PlatformIO](#platformio)
    * [Arduino IDE](#arduino-ide)
* [Unit tests](#unit-tests)
* [Author](#author)
* [License](#license)

<!-- vim-markdown-toc -->

## Features

* non-blocking
* simple on/off
* breathe effect
* blinking effect
* fade-on and -off effect
* user provided effects
* supports reversed polarity of LED
* easy configuration using fluent interface

## Usage

First the LED object is constructed and configured, then the state is updated
with subsequent calls to the `Update()` method, typically from the `loop()`
function. The constructor takes the pin, to which the LED is connected to as
only parameter. Further configuration of the LED object is done using a fluent
interface, e.g. `JLed led = JLed(13).Breathe(2000).DelayAfter(1000).Repeat(5)`.
See examples and [Parameter overview](#parameter-oveview) section below for
further details.

### Static on

Calling `On()` turns the LED on on after an optional time, specified by
`DelayBefore()`, has elapsed. To immediately turn a LED on, make a call
like `JLed(LED_BUILTIN).On().Update()`.

#### Static on example

```c++
#include <jled.h>

// turn builtin LED on after 1 second.
JLed led = JLed(LED_BUILTIN).On().DelayBefore(1000);

void setup() { }

void loop() {
  led.Update();
}
```

### Static off

`Off()` works like `On()`, except that it turns the LED off.

### Blinking

In blinking mode, the LED cycles through a given number of on-off cycles.

#### Blinking example

```c++
#include <jled.h>

// blink internal LED every second.
JLed led = JLed(LED_BUILTIN).Blink(1000, 1000).Forever();

void setup() { }

void loop() {
  led.Update();
}
```

### Breathing

In breathing mode, the LED smoothly changes brightness using PWM.

#### Breathing example

```c++
#include <jled.h>

// connect LED to pin 13 (PWM capable). LED will breathe with period of
// 2000ms and a delay of 1000ms after each period.
JLed led = JLed(13).Breathe(2000).DelayAfter(1000).Forever();

void setup() { }

void loop() {
  led.Update();
}
```

### FadeOn

In FadeOn mode, the LED is smoothly faded on to 100% brightness using PWM.

#### FadeOn example

```c++
#include <jled.h>

// LED is connected to pin 9 (PWM capable) gpio
JLed led = JLed(9).FadeOn(1000).DelayBefore(2000);

void setup() { }

void loop() {
  led.Update();
}
```

### FadeOff

In FadeOff mode, the LED is smoothly faded off using PWM. The fade starts
at 100% brightness. Internally it is implemented as a mirrored version of 
the FadeOn function, i.e. FadeOn(t) = FadeOff(period-t)

### User provided brightness function

It is also possible to provide a user defined brightness function. The
signature of such a function is `unit8_t func(unit32_t t, uint16_t period, uintptr_t param)`.
The function must return the brightness in range 0..255 in dependence of the
current time t.

#### User provided brightness function example

The example uses a user provided function to calculate the brightness.

```c++
#include <jled.h>

// this function returns changes between 0 and 255 and vice versa every 250 ms.
uint8_t blinkFunc(uint32_t t, uint16_t /*period*/, uintptr_t /*param*/) {
  return 255*((t/250)%2);
}

// Run blinkUserFunc for 5000ms
JLed led = JLed(LED_BUILTIN).UserFunc(blinkFunc, 5000);

void setup() {
}

void loop() {
  led.Update();
}
```

### Immediate Stop

Call `Stop()` to immediately turn the LED off and stop any running effects.

## Parameter overview

The following table shows the applicability of the various parameters in
dependence of the chosen effect:

| Method         | Description                                      | Default | On  | Off | Blink | Breath | FadeOn | FadeOff | UserFunc |
|----------------|--------------------------------------------------|---------|:---:|:---:|:-----:|:------:|:------:|:-------:|:--------:|
| DelayBefore(t) | time to wait before state is initially changed   | 0       | Yes | Yes | Yes   | Yes    | Yes    | Yes     | Yes      |
| DelayAfter(t)  | time to wait after each period                   | 0       |     |     |       | Yes    | Yes    | Yes     | Yes      |
| Repeat(n)      | repeat effect for given number of periods        | 1       |     |     | Yes   | Yes    | Yes    | Yes     | Yes      |
| Forever()      | repeat infinitely                                | false   |     |     | Yes   | Yes    | Yes    | Yes     | Yes      |
| LowActive()    | set output to be low-active (i.e. invert output) | false   | Yes | Yes | Yes   | Yes    | Yes    | Yes     | Yes      |

* all times are specified in milliseconds
* time specified by `DelayBefore()` is relative to first invocation of 
  `Update()`

## Example sketches

Examples sketches are provided in the [examples](examples/) directory. 

### PlatformIO

To build an example using [the PlatformIO ide](http://platformio.org/), simply
uncomment the example to be built in the [platformio.ini](platformio.ini)
project file, e.g.:

```ini
...
[platformio]
; uncomment example to build
src_dir = examples/hello
;src_dir = examples/breathe
...
```

### Arduino IDE

To build an example sketch in the Arduino IDE, simply select an example from
the `File` > `Examples` > `JLed` menu.

## Unit tests

Info on how to run the host based provided unit tests 
[is provided here](test/README.md).

## Author

Jan Delgado, jdelgado[at]gmx.net.

## License

[MIT](LICENSE)
